So for the last section,
I wanted to just clump as many of these
things as we can into one big fun demo.
And so we're gonna be creating
a gossip network with hyper log for
replication, we're gonna be using
webrtc-swarm to create peer
to peer connections in the browser.
And we're gonna maybe also
using hyperkb and then we can
make kind of like a shared Wiki by
some very loose sense of that term,
probably just like a text
area that you can change and
other people can see
what the documents are.
All right, so let's get started,
here's some of the modules
that we can use.
So oops, gonna create a new
directory I'll call it wiki, okay,
so the first thing that we need to do
is we need to get our swarm setup,
and we need to get our logs
replicating on top of that swarm,
then we can layer on more pieces
once we have that working.
So, first thing that we need to do,
Is create a new file main.js,
this is gonna be running in the browser.
So I'm gonna be using a lot of the same
libraries we've already covered like
local browserify and yo-yo to just,
whip up a quick little interface.
So the first thing that we wanna
do is we'll require level,
so that's gonna be level-browserify
cuz we're gonna be in the browser.
We'll instantiate that call it wiki.db,
I don't know call it whatever we want.
And then we're gonna load hyperlog,
so I think in this case,
we're also gonna want to use sub level
down to partition that database.
So we're gonna require a sublevel down,
we've got this database now
that we can use for stuff.
So I'm gonna put a hyperlog
into separate sublevel, so
that we don't have to have a bunch
of index dbs floating around.
So we require hyperlog, and then we'll
make a new log that will be hyperlog(sub(,
so I like to call it subdb
of call it 'log') and
a set value in coding to Json as well,
handy thing to do.
Okay, so now we've got some of the basics
of our database set up, the next
thing that we need to do is we need to
set up a swarming logic over webrtc.
So we can do that by requiring
this module, webrtc-swarm,
So webrtc-swarm does take
a server that's going to do
the introductions between peers
because that's not something
that webrtc can do by itself in
a completely peer to peer fashion.
But this server is only used
to set up the connections.
It doesn't mediate that connections in
any other way aside from just connecting
people together.
So we're gonna use a few modules through
that Webrtc-swarm and signalhub.
So we can create a new swarm,
based on a signal hub name,
so we'll call this one wiki, cool-wiki,
we'll call it and then we need to pass
in a list of signal hub addresses.
So there's one that
happens to be running at
signalhub.mafintosh.com who's
the author who wrote this package.
And I uses his server all the time for
my little demos.
So the swarm instance,
will emit peer events when we have
a peer connection, and
that peer is a duplex stream.
So it means that whenever we
get an incoming connection,
we can write to it and
we can also read from it.
So, what we can do now is we
can do log.replicate, and
we can do live replication,
which just means that once
the two endpoints of the log are synced
up the stream will stay open and
then anytime either log gets
a document written to it,
it'll be synced up right away.
In true duplex stream fashion,
a .pipe b.pipe a again, there we go,
And then we're gonna need a way
to add documents to our log.
So I'll just bust out a quick
little interface for doing that.
So here we go, and then I'm gonna
need to create do some dumb stuff.
So we need to append
the document to the body,
And we need to have
a little update function.
So our update function is just going
to take little pieces of state, little
variables in our program and it's going to
update the DOM based on that information.
So, one thing that we can do just to make
sure that replication is working, is
we'll have maybe a little text area where
we can just log pieces of information.
This would be sort of like
our wiki editing interface.
And the pieces of information that we're
gonna wanna keep around to start with
would be maybe just a list of documents.
So I'll just create a little
array to do that, And
now we need to set up our HTML so,
We'll have a form.
It's gonna have a submit event, And
then a text area with a name
we'll call it content or
yeah contents to find name for text area.
And then in our submit handler,
what we need to do is write out
these documents to our database.
And actually, I think we'll also want
an input box that's gonna be like
the title of our wiki page and we'll use
this for the key later in our database.
Put some divs around that, Okay, so
now in our on submit handler whoops.
We're going to need to do
this.elements.title.value to get the title
name, in this.elements.content.value
to get the message body.
So content equals that and
then like to get,
we can reset, perform whatever okay, so
then we need to write
that data out to the log.
So we could do log.add if
we knew the previous key.
There's actually a shortcut in
hyperlog called log.append,
that just uses whatever the latest
hash was that was written.
So, We can use that in this case.
Except what I'd actually like to do is
wire up hyperkv to start with right now
because it's gonna format the keys and
values in a particular way.
So this will just make it easier for
us to deal with.
So, to set up hyperkv,
we require it like so,
we need to give it log
in a database handle, so
to instantiate it so,
We call hyperkv with the hyper log,
and then a database handle that's going to
be a sublevel on our existing database.
So I'll call this one kv, right?
Makes sense so far?
Just using all of
the pieces that we've seen.
We haven't seen hyperkv in action until
now, but this is how you set it up.
And then you can call different
methods like kv.put and kv.get,
or in kv.createReadStream as well
to list out all of the documents.
Okay, so now we can call kv.put
with title and content, whoops.
So the title is gonna be the key and
the content is gonna be the value.
I think we said JSON encoding, so
why don't I do that, all right?
By default, hyperkv is gonna do the same
thing that log.append would do, where
it's just kind of like a little shorthand,
but for the latest known document.
But if we wanted to have
explicit control over that,
you can pass that in as a third option
argument that is a links array.
But we don't need to do that right now.
I'll print out an error if there
is one cuz that's good to know.
Otherwise, we can print
out the node object so
we can see what it looks like
in the hyper log, and then,
Maybe we can take that documents array,
turn it into an object, and then also set.
Set the document content,
so, I think what we wanna do,
though, is probably do, well, anyways,
this is just gonna print out a message.
I think this is enough code to
write without testing it for now.
So let's go ahead and run this thing.
I'm just gonna use budo, like I've been
doing for the other examples, run main.js.
Make sure that I call the update
function right away, I do.
>> I think you're missing the TLD
on your signal address, the .com.
>> Thank you, good call.
I would just an awkward, I'm also gonna
log out when I get a peer connection cuz
that's, That's helpful to see.
Okay, so here we're now running.
I'm gonna launch Chrome.
I'm gonna do a normal Chrome,
and then an incognito Chrome.
Although the incognito will lose
its database, which will be kinda
useful because then the other one can
sync to it when it pops back up again.
Okay, so we go to localhost.
No, I thought I'd
installed that one as well.
Okay, so apparently I hadn't
had that package as well.
All right, now I have that library,
took a while.
Good, I just did not signalhub as well.
All right, sorry,
we gotta wait again, apologies.
Now let's see if it works this time.
Okay, so it requests it.
There we go,
4 megabytes of JavaScript, hooray!
So that's fine.
Excuse me, ignore those errors.
So I'm gonna create a new document.
I'm gonna call it hello.
Gonna put a cool message there.
I forgot to make a submit button, but
I think if I hit Enter,
I forgot to ev.preventDefault.
That's a common mistake, so
I'm gonna go ahead and do that.
Ev.preventDefault, cool.
And, right, I have to be on the first box
and hit Enter to make a submit, whatever.
Okay, here we go.
So we wrote a document now
you can see it scrolled by.
It's just like we were seeing on
the command line with the kind of output.
So it has a key which is a hash.
We could also have identity and signature
if we had enabled the hyperlog sodium.
And we see the links and
we see the value, which is this message.
So the messages in hyperlog
are simple little key value
internal to another key value format,
yet another layer of keys and values.
k is the key, v is the value.
So that's the body that
we put into the textbox.
So that all looks like it's working.
So next thing that we need to do with
this program is we need to go in and
somehow list out all of the documents
from our key value store.
So to do that,
what we can do is I'll put that in
a little function here at the bottom.
Call it getlist, something like that.
And our getlist function can modify that
object that we have, the docs object.
Okay, so there's createReadStream
function is part of hyperkv.
And I can pipe that into to.obj,
like we've been doing a lot.
And just to start with, I'm gonna
call getlist when the code loads,
and we can just look at
what values are in there.
Hopefully we should see
the document that we just created.
Row= row next.
Okay, so back here in the browser.
Indeed, we see row=, and then we see
the message that we already put.
So it's persisting in
the browser into hyperlog.
Without building a whole new interface,
one really quick way that I can test to
see if this is working is if I load this
code into this incognito window here,
which is not on the same IndexedDB.
So it should be a clean IndexedDB.
Hopefully what I should see is
if it can connect over WebRTC,
But maybe it can't if it's
seeing insecure response.
Maybe I need to put HTTP instead
of HTTPS for the signalhub.
That may fix it.
>> It's like the Chrome course.
>> What?
>> It's one of the cross origin.
>> I'm just gonna check really quick
what I did yesterday cuz that worked.
[LAUGH]
Okay, here's what I did yesterday, but
it totally worked.
All right, it was HTTPS.
I think there's a bug where if you
didn't put a slash in one version,
then it wouldn't work.
Maybe it is connecting and I should just
leave it alone for a second, all right?
We'll see.
All right, so another thing that I can
try really quick is I think a budo has
an option to do an SSL server.
I might have to do that.
You have to ignore the scary warnings
So here we are, I have to put a new
message because https is on a different
origin policy from the default one.
I'll write that into the database, still
not getting any peer connections though.
Just too bad.
Okay, yet another thing I can try,
I installed Signal Hub, right?
So it's going to be installed into here.
Signal Hub happens to come with a bin
package, which is like some library.
So if I listen, I can do a local host
version of Signal Hub on a different port.
So that might work.
5008, all right.
I'm gonna Ctrl Shift s
to reload this time.
Now it's not happy about
loading from an http page.
So again, go back to the http version.
This stuff is super finicky sometimes but,
When it works, it's really great.
[LAUGH] Here we go,
compiling four megabytes of JavaScript,
takes a little bit of time.
Okay, so, Hey, we have a peer connection.
That's good.
So what we need to do now is in that other
database, so we have our get list
function, which seems to work.
I'm just gonna, for a really simple hack,
is I'm just going to put it in a set
interval instead of wiring
this all up properly,
just so
we can see if the replication worked.
So, Look at that.
So now, in the incognito window,
we in fact see our documents
from our key value store.
I could take the time to like
build the proper interface, but
I think by now it's good enough.
In fact, if I add a document over here,
I bet we can see it on the other side.
So I'm gonna try that.
Hi from incognito, hit Enter,
and then gonna reload over here.
So it gotta establish a peer connection.
Hey, there we go, hi from incognito.
So we're syncing our key value store,
which is built on a hyper log,
which is a Merkle DAG,
which has a materialized
view sitting on top of it
that gives us a really
unusably obtuse wiki.
So there we go.
[LAUGH]
>> Which could be refactored into
something useful?
>> Yeah, which you, if you took the time,
could make something quite useful.
Use web technology, you could do that.
Okay, great.
[LAUGH] Any questions both
on the Internet or in here?
Sorry for the long pauses, but
we finally made it to the end
result that I was looking for.
So this was LevelDB in crypto.
I think we did some of
each of those things.
>> Awesome, thank you.
>> Great.
>> [APPLAUSE]